I guess the McCarthy staff, the width of the staff, used improper methods in attempting
to secure preferential treatment for the C-day in silence.
Now you say there was no conversation with respect to Shion on the 19th of October.
Is that correct, Miss Adam?
As far as you can remember...
I had three telephone calls with Miss Cohn on the 19th.
So my office diary indicated.
At this moment I recall none of them were quick or directed towards Shion.
They were, I think, to respect the matter, unrelated to Shion or any alleged attempts to secure preferences for Shion.
That's correct.
I recall.
Now, on the 20th, did or not, she go to force Monmouth.
In the company with the C-day?
I did, sir.
Who initiated that shift of October 20th to force Monmouth?
It's Steven.
It indicated sometime earlier that he wanted to go to force Monmouth.
And during the latter part of the week, I think after I got back on the 17th, Saturdays of 17th,
although it might have been as a result of telephone conversations that I had with him to and from New York,
he indicated that he wanted to go up to force Monmouth.
Did he invite anyone to go along with you and him and if so, who did he invite?
Yes, he invited Senator McCarthy, Mr. Cohn and such other members of the staff as might wish to accompany us.
And who did you choose?
Senator McCarthy, Mr. Cohn, Mr. Rainbow and Assistant to Senator Erickson, Mr. Jones, and...
We had identified Mr. Jones.
And Assistant to Senator Potter.
A member of Senator Potter's office staff, Colonel Ballou from A to the Secretary.
Maybe then, I'll back to take the signal off of this.
I think that's all I remember.
Now, there may have been a member of the...
I may have been the name of Mr. Codd, but it's not his old.
I don't recall what he did.
Mr. Adam, I will ask you to tell the committee whether or not any unforeseen incidents occurred at Fort Monmouth.
Have a nice day.
I'll make sure.
I'll go back a moment.
Sir, you asked me if there was any conversation at all related to Cheyenne on the 19th.
There was.
It was not related in so far as I can remember to preferential treatment of Cheyenne.
But on the 19th, when we were discussing the drift of Fort Monmouth, Mr. Cohn first indicated that he might go back to New York and was inquiring as to whether or not there was a means by which we could arrange transportation for him to come to Fort Monmouth.
I'm really speculated on that.
I'm not sure that we reached any decision, but he indicated at that time that if he'd been this golden in New York, probably he would be attempting to Fort Monmouth by Cheyenne from New York.
That does not come off.
And as I say, I think it would only be in the realm of speculation.
So on the 19th, the name Diffian was done.
To the extent you have just been paid, accurately, etc.
Now my last question, Mr. Adams, was whether or not any un-tored incident occurred on October 20th at Fort Monmouth of an unusual nature.
Yes, sir.
When we arrived at Fort Monmouth, we were given badges.
Red badges, you know, even secrets and yellow badges and gemogenoting confidential.
Those of us who were officials of the Army were given the red badges.
The others were given yellow badges.
We had been met there by Senator Smith of New Jersey and Congressman Hawkins Law of New Jersey.
And those two officials together were Senator Parker and Senator McCarthy and members of his staff were given the confidential yellow badges.
Shortly after we arrived, we made a tour of Fort Monmouth.
And again, our general law firm stopped the party in front of the seat of the laboratory to take the party in to see the new piece of development.
When we got ready to go in, it was pointed out that only the individual was wearing the red badges would be entitled in it.
And Mr. Stevens and Fireless now they've come about and there was a discussion of security and Mr. Stevens said that he would take it as a negative decision right then,
they would be in the electric officials to see that the equipment had the effect of course that excluded the other individuals who had the yellow badges, the confidential badges, because this was a secret building.
And that excluded Mr. Jones, Mr. Rainbow, Mr. Cohn.
Well, who was it, maybe?
Well, the secretary just sent him a copy with him and he just sent his message with him.
He just passed the office and also passed with him.
And of course, Mr. Bolo was a Colonel Bolo and I were inside the landers.
What did you enter?
I walked in the building for a moment.
I don't think immediately, but I didn't say it because I knew that Mr. Cohn had become very upset.
Well, did Mr. Cohn enter or not?
No, he was not in the cabinet.
How did you know that Mr. Cohn had become very upset?
Well, I was pissed when he got angry.
The saddened I want you to tell in detail what occurred there with respect to Mr. Cohn.
Well, he became extremely upset when at the dollar said he would be excluded.
What did he say?
And he paced up and down in front of the building for a while.
And I was not in his presence during the entire 15 or 25 minutes because I walked into the building once to see.
Now, quickly they were coming out, came back out again.
And...
Did or not you realize when you entered the building that left Mr. Cohn that he was upset that he was very upset?
Colonel Ballou had lost him, but he had come out also.
Lieutenant Cohn, who was in a Lawton Bade, had not gone in.
And in the three of us were between us attempting to play case, Mr. Cohn.
That was right to you, he and I.
That's right. I was in the cabinet.
The saddened I was just to pin points at the point of inquiry.
I want you to tell the committee what you were told by those who were present with Mr. Cohn.
Well, I was said...
Who were available with Mr. Cohn?
Mr. Cohn said and did as that happen.
Well, he said many things in front of me. I don't need to replace what.
Well, first, what he said is from the views.
Well, he said, this is war and we'll really investigate this place now.
Because they let the community in and keep me out.
I've got two different clearance. I can go any place in the world.
I've got security clearance. I've got any place in the world.
I made a number of extreme remarks about that for it during the course of conversations.
You did not say anything about whether or not he had access to FBI files?
He did not say that in my presence. He said it in the presence of others and it was retouched.
Have you now related all that you said in your presence?
No, he said other things. He came up to me on touristy occasions.
He just had no run of those kind of things. He was in the effective bringing his hands.
Oh, getting his arm out of that room in New York. I can't stay here. This is awful.
I said, I had indicated that he's been humiliated and deliberate.
And remarks of that sort which were indicated considerable distress and considerable anger.
And this continued throughout the period of 15 or 20 minutes while the Secretary and party were in one building.
Making him out of that building was about no four months.
Yes, sir. They came out of that building and walked across the road to another area,
which was similarly restricted and into which people without the proper badges had not entered.
And Mr. Tone continues to face him and his remarks from the getting discussed.
Well, just talk where he's remarks. Those that I have to tell him.
Same remarks you mean.
That sort of thing which has been done with humiliating young guys.
This is warring. They look coming at him here like I can't get in and that sort of thing.
Very well.
Now I ask you, Mr. Adams, to relate to the committee.
The information that you received from those who were present with Mr. Kone while you were out of his presence.
And particularly with respect to what he says.
Well, the only two significant things other than the remarks that I have recounted is that he reinstated in the presence of Donald Balloon.
That he had access to FBI files.
And Donald Balloon, the gentleman sitting behind you and an aide to the secretary.
Yes, sir.
Very well.
How about that?
And he stated in the presence of a man named Sullivan, who is employee of the post.
And who is available as a witness?
He is now in town that I'm sure he's available as a witness.
He did talk later. Something to the effectiveness of the Declaration of War.
And most of the remarks that he made in my presence, he made also in the presence of Donald Balloon.
We were together most of the time with Mr. Kone.
That's not all the time. There was some paving up and down in front of this small building.
You know whether or not there was a man named Flattery or a slavery express.
I said Sullivan, I am that Flattery.
He meant Flattery.
This Flattery.
Very well.
Now I'm picking up from there, Mr. Adams.
What inspired the media to buy an answer and particularly during the lunch hour?
Well, the luncheon was set up by Denver Lawton in a small temporary building.
He had box lunches set up so that they had to be brought over from someplace else.
That we're not in the building in between this.
And he had his staff present.
The staff included probably 2015 or 20 officers.
And in addition, there were presents that two or three officers from the intelligence section of first Army
and the decadence or the chief of staff of headquarters first Army.
Whose name I forget is General Officer.
And we went into the room together for the box lunches around the temporary cable members, which was set up.
During the previous day, there had been prepared a draft especially.
But it had been prepared by me.
What was the purpose of that?
The purpose of the tragedy was we had prepared it.
I have prepared it with the thought that Senator McCarty might really visit his work month.
I have not prepared it with the knowledge of the Secretary of the Army.
And in order to give you the purpose, I have just stepped back a few days to October 13th and October 14th.
On both of those days, Senator McCarty stayed in this seat.
And that he felt that the subcommittee had largely completed its investigation for a month.
And that he was about ready to turn the facts, the transcripts, and the information over the Army and to let the Army pursue the matter from last.
I had no indication during the balance of the week after Mr. Steven Fletz, 15th and 16th, that there was any change in this plan
for Senator McCarty's four in this investigation for Senator McCarty.
Consequently, on the 19th of February, it seemed to me proper.
It was on the 19th of October.
You not hear me, Senator?
Can you hear me?
On the 19th of October, I prepared a press release, one to which we have previously testified.
I prepared it in that form because I had been made aware of the facts.
That hearing, we're going to continue for a day or so in New York, and in Fort Monmouth.
And a day or so subsequent to that in New York.
And this press release was designed to be something which would be discussed or offered to the Secretary to the Senator,
and it was just a thought that he might issue it, why he would ask Fort Monmouth on the 20th.
When we were in the airplane, some relations in it were suggested by the Senator.
When we got to Fort Monmouth, it was semiographed as I recall.
At the request of Colonel Blue, marched up in the form that it was been agreed to.
And I think that is semiographed properly with Mr. Cohn, an office to me for identification when I was a damon on that matter as he did.
So, when we went to lunch on the 20th, I sat on one side of Mr. Cohn and Colonel Blue sat on the other side of it.
Our purpose was to continue our efforts to stay here.
He made it quite clear to me that there would be no press release that day.
And he made it also clear that he was as a result of the incident which had occurred just a few moments previously as the Chief of Lancetore.
Maybe you're not still in the sense Mr. Adams is that what you mean?
And he wasn't angry anymore, but in this case he was determined.
Well, sometimes during the course of the lunch in Sendemokai, he left the dining room for a moment and just Cohn followed him.
I had a feeling that this would be the time that the rest of the week would be killed and I saw it more so.
They were together a couple of minutes before I was there.
Well, in short, we understand he went to the main room, is that right?
Very well, I'll go ahead Mr. Adams.
They were together for a few moments before I arrived and Senator MacCaise told me as we were returning to the dining room.
He didn't feel that he had released that press release that day and he stated that it was because he felt that it was an indicator.
There was a deal with the Army and they were calling off a investigation and it was not the group.
And that ended the press release.
And by going back to where Mr. Adams, at the time you have told about what Mr. Cohn said his remarks when he was not as made into this secret laboratory.
Was there not that there a young lieutenant president named Cohn?
Yes, there was a kind of scores, which we really ate again a lot was present during much of the time.
Did Cohn make a remarks to you as Mr. Cohn has just allegedly made the remarks you have detailed?
Yes, what was that remarks?
Cohn's distress caused me in turn to be the stress and the core approached me out of Cohn here,
even said he didn't understand why I got up to upset about a matter of this sort because the...
He said this man is an employee of the Senate, he is not a senator.
And he didn't see why I should be upset about that.
And I responded that I had found out.
All right, that Cohn has the capacity to control what happened to the committee.
And that he had the capacity to stretch hearing done internally or to turn off as he chose to have that I was not happy about having come hanging with.
Had or not, you come to that conclusion that Cohn has been reinstated the Senate core of the Senate.
I have been reinstated the Senate core of the Senate.
That's correct.
Very well.
Now going back to the luncheon, Mr. Adams,
I'd like to ask you whether or not the Secretary made any statements on that occasion.
I made Mr. Stevens aware of how agitated Cohn was and blue, except for the current blue statement
to where his agitated Cohn was and at the conclusion of the luncheon,
seated around the large table, similar to one, sitting down on the seat around.
Mr. Stevens made a very consideratory remark, which were in design to make Mr. Cohn feel good.
Do you recall what he said?
Well, he said something to the effect that he had made a decision on the third moment to take these elected officials in.
Perhaps it was not a proper decision if it had offended Mr. Cohn.
He was sorry and that he had not intended to do anything in that story.
And I thought it was extremely gracious form of apologies, which he made from the greatest round of about 25.
Would you regard it as an apologies made by the Secretary in the presence of those approximately 25 people present?
I think.
Did or not that statement to Cohn?
It seems to be substantial.
Are there any other incidents of October 20th, Mr. Adams, as you think, are relevant to the issues of this controversy?
None of that at all.
When was your next contact either by telephone or in person with the McCarthy Investigating Committee?
I had numerous telephone conversations regularly during this period.
Well, the next one, the next one, in chronological order if you can possibly give.
And you may refer to your notes, sir, Mr. Adams, for the purpose of refreshing the recollection of these those exact.
While Mr. Adams is looking up his notes, this gives us an opportunity to submit our stations to identify themselves.
This is ABC Television Network.
State line Detroit, Nash Lowes, Prices, Rock America, on ambassadors, basements, metro persons, the swing now is to Nash.
And here's the big-sized farm shell, a famous Nash-rembleer family sedan, tax-free delivery shows for only $1,550 at your Nash dealers now.
Mountain House Patel, because for likely persons, all the parties are the cardinotation that your guests represent without feelings.
Give her telephone call two or three days.
I can't say every day there was two or three, but I was in telephone contact quite regularly with Mr. Cohn, who spent most of the time in New York, and with Mr. Carr, who spent most of the time in Washington.
You mean now, since we're dropped over 20, is that a correction? Do you mean beginning the day after October 20th, is this that?
Well, on October 21st, there's no indication in my office diary that I...
Mr. Jenkins is asking about his next contact, and I suppose to be an October 20th, with the committee.
What I'm trying to tell you, Mr. Jenkins, is that between October 20th and November 1st, I had numerous conversations I cannot precisely say on which of these conversations.
The subject of Mr. Shine and his treatment was discussed, but it was discussed during that period.
We are now just discussing a 10-day session.
I will ask you, Mr. Adams, how many telephone conversations you have during that 10-day session, with any members of the McCarthy Investigating Committee?
I have encounters there.
Can you do so now? I don't think I could do so accurately for that.
Well, can you give us an approximate idea of how many?
Well, I would have asked for a wrong if I did.
Did I understand you to say, sometimes, two or three days?
If you would like to stay there, I'll do a bit.
On October 21, there was a telephone call to Mr. Buckley.
I was sending the McCarthy spam. Some Mr. Buckley.
22 October, indications of a telephone call from Mr. Cohn.
No indication of the weather or not, it was a long distance call.
Other records I had indicated I had only one long distance call from Mr. Cohn, and that was on 25 October.
Is there anything in the conversation of 22 October with reference to Mr. Shine?
I am trying to say to you, Mr. Jenkins, that I am unable to stay on which of the days between 20 and 30 October's the subject of Shine.
Specifically the discussion.
Well, were there any occasions in that thing they feared that where Shine was discussed?
There were some bad news about Mr. Cohn.
Who initiated those telephone calls?
Well, again, I have stated to you that there was a telephone call from Mr. Jenkins for us.
And if Mike has been during the call, I initiated it, or it might have been during the call with him.
But whenever it was, the subject of Shine was initiated by Mr. Cohn.
In those conversations where other subjects discussed, in addition to the subject of Shine regularly,
I wish you whether or not to be particular of the subject of the McCarthy investigation of alleged subversives and forced moments were discussed,
that in those same conversations in which Shine was discussed.
That was the primary subject of my association with Mr. Cohn all to the phone.
And do you say that Mr. Cohn was in New York most of the time when those telephone conversations occurred?
I can't say most of the time.
I had an impression of Mr. Cohn spent most of the time in the ball in New York.
I feel like it's a question.
Were those calls or any of those calls, monitors Mr. Adam?
I wish you whether or not during that 10-day period, you felt or began to feel that any undue or unusual pressure was being put upon you with reference to Shine.
Well, the pressure by then, I don't think today's categorized has undoes.
There has been nothing unusual about it then, so it's your decision.
I can't say that, Mr. Dinkins.
I was made aware of the fact that Mr. Cohn hoped that Mr. Shine would be as fine in New York as he was drafted,
but as far as the pressure being directed at me and me alone and being expected to be burdensome,
although I was aware of it, it wasn't yet something which caused me any particular concern.
It was a day I was made aware of a situation which was unusual because in my seven years in the government,
I've seen very little of that sort of thing by congressional staff members or members of Congress.
So the very first time that the inquiry was made of me, I was fine.
And the reason I was surprised is that I had spent very two years as counsels of the 50th Secretary of Defense
from then power and personnel, and I was very aware of the problems which we faced in the administration of the induction
and the selective service act, and more so, probably than most officials.
In the Pentagon, I am and always was extremely sensitive to the danger that he had with any prop, any improprietious of any impropriet administration.
During the period about which we were talking, they did not Senator McCarthy in person discuss Shine with you.
With the exception of the one conversation in New York City at some time about October 15th or 16th.
We were covering that a month of October, the first month of your tenure in office.
You told what the Senator said in New York City about October 15th.
Between that time on November 1st and Senator McCarthy discuss Shine with you, Father, are there any other tasks?
At the moment I do not recall.
There were times that there was a date which I have not been able to successfully to the pinpoint.
During the month of October you mean?
No sir.
We are taking this up months so much.
No, let me tell you the whole.
I don't need to tell you all the tasks.
There was a date which I have not been able to successfully to pinpoint.
Which was around 31 October to 4 November.
And I don't know whether it was in October or in November I think it was November that it could be.
In October when there was a discussion with Senator McCarthy.
We respect to G. David Shine.
Then it would have been sometime between October 31st and November 4th.
So right, it might have been a slight of an interest.
Mr. Adams I will ask you to tell the committee what was said to you upon that occasion.
The Senator McCarthy, whether by telephone call our personal contact and who initiated the meeting.
Or the telephone conversation.
That's three questions in one but I'm sure you might.
During this period an arrangement was made which I didn't know.
For Shine to be given to Lee's contemporary duty in New York City immediately after he was inducted.
His induction was scheduled for spring or November which meant this from about three to eighteen November.
Shine was the on temporary duty in New York City.
His temporary duty was not required to be in uniform but was made and available to the committee.
Who made that arrangement?
It was made by Mr. Cohn.
Who was made by Mr. Cohn with the secretary as I understand it.
I had no participation in it so I don't know about it.
I think you too got your information from the secretary or from his aide.
That's right.
I don't believe it.
Very well.
Sometime during the period immediately adjacent to Shine's induction.
It was around the third or the fourth of November but it might have been the first of November that a McCarthy spoke to me about the fact that the arrangements had been made.
But telephone are in person.
Again my recollection is that it was in person and the may I have to make an explanation?
Certainly.
I had fixed my recollection very carefully to find out when it was.
I have a fade recollection that it was in New York.
However my recollection showed that I was in New York only on the 30th of October.
And the context of Mr. Cohn and the Democratic Condensation and the 18th 18th in the case that the individual already had been drafted.
So the conversation must have been subsequent to his induction which can only mean money.
And I must have spoken to Senator McCarthy here in the building.
I have not been able to locate and isolate where it lies.
I am quite sure it was not a telephone call but Senator McCarthy said to me that he did not feel that this temporary duty for Shine was a good thing.
He felt that people members of the press who might be critical hostile of him or critical of Shine or Cohn or the committee might consider that it was a formal preferential treatment.
And he would prefer in the after-mile of the race to have the temporary duty canceled.
So I'm going to that Sophie going to that time and I was a minister out of the Senate of the Democratic Board.
And Mr. Cohn, who was aware of this request stated to me that as long as it's the middle of the week now which would have been about support of November.
There's no use canceling it and having a recording on Friday morning.
There's nothing for him to do, so why don't you just cancel it for him to record in on next Monday morning.
The next result of this was that Senator McCarthy requested a termination of the temporary duty and the 15-day orders were canceled and 4-day orders, I think it was 40.
A 4-day orders were substituted which would have the result of having him report for duty on the following Tuesday morning.
Following Monday morning, he in fact reported on Tuesday I think because they took no class on Monday.
And he did report on the following Monday about the 10th.
Now he's empty-tailed a conversation that occurred.
A optimum leave of 4th or 5th of November has not.
That is right there.
When will your next contact with the McCarthy Investigating Committee?
Allow some time during this period.
I think it was prior to the induction. It might have been just subsequent to the induction.
I had a conversation with Mr. Cohn.
With respect to shyness. That is correct.
When you detailed that conversation with Adam, I was trying to point out to Cohn from what the little experience I had had in the administration of the Selective Service Act.
How unwise it was to attempt to interfere with the induction of any individual or of the service.
And I was basing it on the feeling with all of the staff who had the administration of Selective Service Act.
It is fundamental that the Selective Service Act and the inductee take an understates monthly and partially treated.
The strength of the army, the strength of the Navy, the strength of the Marines in the Air Force, all depend upon the draft.
Even though neither of its none of the services except the Army are using induction.
The very presence of induction and the threat of induction stimulates the listeners in all of the other services.
We found from our own experience that only about a million or a million and a quarter men are career-stores or sailors in the air.
And any time that we have a force and expect of a million and a quarter men and we have one around two and a half to three million now,
Selective Service gives the is the never by which the strength of all of our services are being gained.
And I help them as I have always helped.
The National Insurance Requires great care in the administration of the act and I said to them,
I said to them that I would like to get them some advice.
I remember that the conversation was very friendly and I said,
I think you are one of the smartest boys I know.
Smarty young man I have ever seen.
I am sure Mr. Cornwall does. Is that the second from the record?
It is Chairman. I am Mr. Chairman.
I am probably one of the most famous.
Is that the conversation in which you call the discussion of the fact that you are 15 years?
I am not sure if this thing gets there. I have pointed out to them that I was 15 years.